<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>Analysis: C. A. E. Luschnig</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="splash.css" />
        <script type="text/javascript">
            function toggleHighlight(category) {
                document.body.classList.toggle('show-' + category);
            }

            function clearAll() {
                const checkboxes = document.querySelectorAll('input[type="checkbox"]');
                checkboxes.forEach(cb => cb.checked = false);
                const categories = ['marriage', 'violence', 'autonomy', 'patriarchy', 'family', 'motherhood', 'alone'];
                categories.forEach(cat => document.body.classList.remove('show-' + cat));
            }
        </script>
    </head>
    <body class="luschnig-page">
        <div class="top-bar">
            <a href="index.xhtml" class="nav-link">Home</a>
            <a href="about.xhtml" class="nav-link">About</a>
            <a href="corpus.xhtml" class="nav-link">Corpus</a>
            <a href="analysis.xhtml" class="nav-link">Analysis</a>
        </div>
        
        <div class="hero-collage trans2-hero">
            <h1 class="main-title">C. A. E. Luschnig Translation</h1>
        </div>
        
        <div class="split-container">
            <aside class="controls">
                <h3>Analysis Filters</h3>
                <div class="control-group">
                    <h4>Themes</h4>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('marriage')" /> Marriage</label><br/>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('violence')" /> Violence</label><br/>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('autonomy')" /> Autonomy</label><br/>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('patriarchy')" /> Patriarchy</label><br/>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('family')" /> Family</label><br/>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('motherhood')" /> Motherhood</label><br/>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('alone')" /> Alone/Isolation</label>
                </div>
                <br/>
                <button type="button" onclick="clearAll()">Clear Highlights</button>
            </aside>
            
            <div class="column-text">
                <h2>Textual Markup: Luschnig</h2>
                <p>Click the checkboxes on the left to highlight specific thematic elements within the translation.</p>
                
                <div class="translation-text">
                    <div class="line">Of all creatures that have life and reason</div>
                    <div class="line">we women are the sorriest lot:</div>
                    <div class="line">first we must at a <span class="patriarchy" title="Action: purchase_woman">great expenditure of money</span></div>
                    <div class="line"><span class="marriage" title="Type: non_consensual">buy a husband</span> and even <span class="autonomy" title="Status: loss">take on a master</span></div>
                    <div class="line">over our body: this evil is more galling than the first.</div>
                    <div class="line">Here is the most challenging contest, whether we will get a bad man</div>
                    <div class="line">or a good one. Besides, <span class="marriage" title="Type: non_consensual">divorce is unsavory</span></div>
                    <div class="line">for a woman and it is <span class="autonomy" title="Status: loss">not possible to say no to one's husband</span>.</div>
                    <div class="line">And when she comes into new customs and rules</div>
                    <div class="line">a woman must be a prophet of what she could never learn at home:</div>
                    <div class="line">how best to deal with her <span class="marriage" title="Type: consensual">marriage partner</span>;</div>
                    <div class="line">and if we get it worked out well and a husband shares</div>
                    <div class="line">our life with us, and he bears the yoke <span class="violence" title="Type: domestic">without violence</span>,</div>
                    <div class="line">life is to be envied. Otherwise we are better off dead.</div>
                    <div class="line">But the man, when he is bored with things at home</div>
                    <div class="line">he can go out to ease the weariness of his heart.</div>
                    <div class="line">But we have just one person to look to.</div>
                    <div class="line">They say that we live a life free of danger</div>
                    <div class="line">at home while they face battle with the spear.</div>
                    <div class="line">How wrong they are. I would rather stand three times</div>
                    <div class="line">in the line of battle than once <span class="motherhood" title="Event: birth">bear a child</span>.</div>
                    <div class="line">But the same story does not apply to you and me.</div>
                    <div class="line">You have this city and your <span class="family">father's home</span>,</div>
                    <div class="line">enjoyment of life, and the companionship of <span class="family">friends</span>,</div>
                    <div class="line">but, <span class="alone" title="Status: alienated">alone and without a city</span>, I am <span class="violence" title="Type: domestic">abused</span></div>
                    <div class="line">by my husband, carried off as plunder from a foreign land,</div>
                    <div class="line">I have <span class="alone" title="Status: isolated">no <span class="family">mother</span>, no <span class="family">brother</span>, no relative</span></div>
                    <div class="line">to offer me a safe haven from this disaster.</div>
                </div>
            </div> 
        </div>
        <div class="viz-container">
            <div class="viz-placeholder">
                <p>In the Greek tragedy of Euripides’ Medea, the first speech by Medea (reflected in my markup) functions as both a personal lament and a broader indictment of the “tragedy of womanhood.” My tagging system (ex. autonomy loss="true" and alone isolated="true") maps how this character’s speech moves from generalized claims about the conditions of women under patriarchal oppression, to the specificity of her own experience as a foreign, abandoned wife.
                   In the initial lines of this excerpt, my tags capture how Medea frames womanhood as subordinate to men. The phrase “buy a husband and even take on a master” is not just metaphorical, but it reflects a bodily loss of agency. Marriage is not coded as partnership, but as a transaction. This reinforces how, regardless of status, women remain subject to male authority. Even Medea, a descendant of Helios, cannot escape this system. Her divine lineage offers no protection from gendered oppression.
                   The repetition of autonomy loss="true" and the implied non-consensual nature of marriage (line 236–237) further underscore a key contradiction in ancient Greek society: women are expected to successfully manage both the household and their marriage ("family"), yet they are denied the freedom to refuse or exit. In this instance, Medea demonstrates intellectual authority, dismantling the idea that women are governed purely by passion, even though the play later complicates this through her violent actions.
                   Additionally, my tags around conditional safety (violence domestic="avoided"> and autonomy gain="conditional">) are similarly important. Medea suggests that a woman’s life depends entirely on a husband’s restraint. Women’s well-being is precarious and reliant upon the men in their lives, rather than guaranteed by society. The patriarchy faithfulnes="double-standard" tag further emphasizes this imbalance, as men are free to leave the home, while women remain confined and dependent.
                   The shift in lines 246–250, marked by alone isolated="true" and motherhood birth="burdensome", expands the critique. Medea’s declaration that she would rather face battle than childbirth directly challenges Greek ideals that valorize male warfare and minimize female suffering. My markup captures this inversion: motherhood is not idealized but exposed as both physically and emotionally taxing. This moment is crucial because it reframes what we understand courage and suffering to be, further asserting that women’s experiences are systematically misunderstood.
                   Finally, the closing lines (251–257) transition from collective to personal tragedy. The contrast tag (autonomy loss="contrast") and repeated "alone" markers emphasize Medea’s layered marginalization, not just as a woman, but as a foreigner. Being “carried off as plunder” (violence domestic="true") situates her marriage within the logic of conquest. Medea’s lack of kinship ties (no mother, no brother) illustrates her vulnerability, making her suffering legible as both gendered and racialized (she is Persian, not Greek).
                                                                        
                   My text has been translated by Cecelia Anne Eaton Luschnig, or C. A. E. Luschnig. She was an American classics scholar well-known for her translations of Euripides. Much of her writing explored the portrayal of women in ancient Greek society, one of her earliest works being “Euripides’ Trojan Women: All Is Vanity” (1971), and later works being Granddaughter of the Sun: A Study of Euripides’ Medea (2007), Euripides’ Electra: A Commentary (2011), and Electra, Phoenician Women, Bacchae, and Iphigenia at Aulis (2011). 
                   Female authors, like Luschig, often use initials to obscure their gender in an attempt to avoid sexist stereotypes and bias. This is particularly true across male-dominated genres like science fiction or fantasy. Similarly to the character of Medea, Luschig sought to be taken seriously as women capable of abstract intellect and emotional depth. 
                   This version of Medea was translated by Luschig in 2006. Offering a refreshing contemporary take to the tragic story, this interpretation focuses on Medea’s complex character. The audience must grapple with the complicated nature of her humanity through the political and social implications imposed upon her, as a foreigner, mother, wife, and woman. Luschig’s portrayal of Medea reveals a truth of human nature; the vengeance enacted by those pushed to the margins of society (women, foreigners, etc.) are a response to the injustices they face in their everyday lives. Medea is spiteful yet compassionate, emotional yet calculated, divine yet human.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>