<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>Analysis: Lisa Cerrato</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="splash.css" />
        <script type="text/javascript">
            function toggleHighlight(category) {
                document.body.classList.toggle('show-' + category);
            }

            function clearAll() {
                const checkboxes = document.querySelectorAll('input[type="checkbox"]');
                checkboxes.forEach(cb => cb.checked = false);
                const categories = ['marriage', 'violence', 'autonomy', 'patriarchy', 'family', 'motherhood', 'alone'];
                categories.forEach(cat => document.body.classList.remove('show-' + cat));
            }
        </script>
    </head>
    <body class="cerrato-page">
        <div class="top-bar">
            <a href="index.xhtml" class="nav-link">Home</a>
            <a href="about.xhtml" class="nav-link">About</a>
            <a href="corpus.xhtml" class="nav-link">Corpus</a>
            <a href="analysis.xhtml" class="nav-link">Analysis</a>
        </div>
        
        <div class="hero-collage trans3-hero">
            <h1 class="main-title">Lisa Cerrato Translation</h1>
        </div>
        
        <div class="split-container">
            <aside class="controls">
                <h3>Analysis Filters</h3>
                <div class="control-group">
                    <h4>Themes</h4>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('marriage')" /> Marriage</label><br/>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('violence')" /> Violence</label><br/>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('autonomy')" /> Autonomy</label><br/>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('patriarchy')" /> Patriarchy</label><br/>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('family')" /> Family</label><br/>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('motherhood')" /> Motherhood</label><br/>
                    <label><input type="checkbox" onclick="toggleHighlight('alone')" /> Alone/Isolation</label>
                </div>
                <br/>
                <button type="button" onclick="clearAll()">Clear Highlights</button>
            </aside>
            
            <div class="column-text">
                <h2>Textual Markup: Carmel Levin</h2>
                <p>Click the checkboxes on the left to highlight specific thematic elements within the translation.</p>
                
                <div class="translation-text">
                    <div class="line">Of all things that have life and sense we</div>
                    <div class="line">women are the most hapless creatures; first</div>
                    <div class="line">must we <span class="marriage" title="Action: purchase_woman">buy a husband</span> at an exorbitant</div>
                    <div class="line">price, and o’er ourselves a tyrant set which</div>
                    <div class="line">is an evil worse than the first;</div>
                    <div class="line">and herein lies the most important issue,</div>
                    <div class="line">whether our choice be good or bad. For</div>
                    <div class="line"><span class="marriage" title="Status: discreditable">divorce is discreditable to women</span>, nor can</div>
                    <div class="line"><span class="patriarchy">we disown our lords.</span> Next must the wife,</div>
                    <div class="line">coming as she does to ways and customs</div>
                    <div class="line">new, since she hath not learnt the lesson in</div>
                    <div class="line">her home, have a diviner’s eye</div>
                    <div class="line"><span class="patriarchy">to see how best to treat the partner of her life</span>. If</div>
                    <div class="line"><span class="patriarchy">haply we perform these tasks with</span></div>
                    <div class="line">thoroughness and tact, and the <span class="marriage">husband</span></div>
                    <div class="line">live with us, without resenting the yoke, our</div>
                    <div class="line"><span class="marriage">life is a happy one;</span> if not, <span class="violence" title="Type: suicide">’twere best to die.</span></div>
                    <div class="line">But when a man is vexed with what he</div>
                    <div class="line">finds indoors,</div>
                    <div class="line"><span class="violence">he goeth forth and rids his soul</span> of its</div>
                    <div class="line">disgust, betaking him to some friend or</div>
                    <div class="line">comrade of like age; whilst we must needs</div>
                    <div class="line">regard his single self.</div>
                    <div class="line">And yet they say we live secure at home,</div>
                    <div class="line">while they are at the <span class="violence">wars</span>,</div>
                    <div class="line">with their sorry reasoning, for I would</div>
                    <div class="line"><span class="autonomy">gladly take my stand in battle array three</span></div>
                    <div class="line">times o’er, than once give</div>
                    <div class="line"><span class="motherhood" title="Event: birth">birth</span>.</div>
                    <div class="line">But enough! this language suits not thee as</div>
                    <div class="line">it does me; thou hast a city here, a <span class="family">father’s</span></div>
                    <div class="line">house, <span class="autonomy">some joy in life, and friends to share</span></div>
                    <div class="line">thy thoughts,</div>
                    <div class="line"><span class="alone" title="Status: isolated">but I am destitute, without a city</span>, and</div>
                    <div class="line">therefore <span class="marriage">scorned by my husband, a <span class="alone">captive</span></span></div>
                    <div class="line">I from a foreign shore, <span class="family">with no mother</span>,</div>
                    <div class="line">brother, or kinsman in whom to find a new</div>
                    <div class="line">haven of refuge from this calamity.</div>
                </div>
            </div> 
        </div>
        <div class="analysis-box">
            <h2>Translation 3: Analysis</h2>
            <div class="analysis-text">
                <p> As the most modern example out of our translations, the language seems to reflect a diction similar to one that people use today. 
                    Nonethless, the antiquated theme of patriarchy is still prevalant throughout. 
                    Patriarchy shows up in these lines when Medea reflects on her status as a women. She recognizes that in a marriage she will likely lose all autonpmy, but divorce is extremely frowned up, especially for women. She explains how even though she has family and friends, she still feels like a captive in her marriage, as she has no autonpmy in the relationship.
                    As a woman herself, Lisa Cerrato, the author of the translation, likely had some understanding of this notion. It is not unlikely that it influenced the way she translated the work, as she wanted the message to be unwaveringly clear. 
                    Cerrato works at Tufts University at the Perseus Digital Library, with a focus on user support and outreach. 
                    With this in mind, it is clear how Cerrato writes her translation with the goal of making it understandable to readers. Additionally, Cerrato's interests include furthering the study of classical Greek and Latin. Once again, a clear translation proves to be important to Cerrato. She likely took special care in the way she re-wrote the text, as she wants it to reach as many people as possible. 
                    The themes and messages must be clear in order to achieve her goal of spreading that knowledge. In this translation, the themes are clear, and the language is articulate, likely a reflection of the translators' values. 
                    bar charts go here.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>